6/2/2026
Started the project - created new project file
Set up SFML
Created main Game function and window, defined functions for:
Key Presses
Events
Game Updates
Game Running
Had issues with the new SFML 3.0 Events handling options, specifically
I was struggling with sending values from the Events function to the Keys handling function. Found answers on stack overflow where I forgot to de-reference the value before sending it.
Tested it so the window and events/key handling functions work. All works!
Added a player character with a placeholder sprite.
I forgot to set TextureRect so I couldn't see the sprite for an hour.
Added Player movement through velocity, with deceleration. Needs tuning.
7/2/2026
Worked on player movement further. Smoothened it by using Key Pressed and Key Released functions.
Added sprinting mechanics
Added Aiming and player sprite rotation depending on where player is facing.
Added Enemy and EnemyController Class
Added Enemy sprite
Added Enemy Random Movement
Added Enemy Facing Player when Player is nearby
Added camera that follows player
Added temporary background image (to show player camera movement)
9/2/2026
Started writing weapons class
Started with weapon type enums
Took a long time linking all the classes together properly between:
Player, PlayerController and Weapon
At the end I realised it's better if I create a basic weapon class
that declares functions for weapon type sub classes - making adding weapons
for player and enemy easier later on. Will have to rewrite tomorrow.
10/2/2026
I rewrote Weapon code to separate Weapons and Weapon Types. I have a WeaponType enum so I can reference the weapons in PlayerController without having to actually call them there.
Weapon class points the player to the WeaponType classes which hold all actual information about the Weapon the player is currently holding
This makes it easy to edit weapons and add new weapons without having to rewrite existing code to facilitate for the changes.
Implemented a system where the player can shoot/attack and the game acknowledges if the player is holding a weapon or not, if the weapon has a cooldown active and can't shoot, or whhether the weapon can shoot.
Rewrote the enemies and players as entities
Rewrote enemy into a vector of enemies
Rewrote collisions, render and update checks to work around multiple enemies
Fixed Collisions to work around no enemies on screen
Implemented Collisions
11/2/2026
Created projectiles
Created multiple weapon types and implemented them
Implemented damage drop off based on distance travelled
Implemented collisions on multiple projectiles
Implemented projectile deaths
Rewrote code to better facilitate collisions and multiple weapons
12/2/2026
Added Level background and tilemap
Added tilemap collisions for Player, Enemy and Bullets/Projectiles
Had to rewrite tilemap collisions for player multiple times as there were issues with misaligned collisions, physics glitches etc.
Added random enemy spawning in areas of the map
13/2/2026
Upon testing game .exe, found out it doesn't work in release mode.
Rebuilt SFML from scratch and cleaned up the project in order to have it seamlessly working between Debug and Release in the future.
Rewrote the game to include different menus/game screens to allow for menus later.
16/2/2026
Rewrote Upgrade Code to be more efficient
Wrote Skills Tree Menu, Weapon Upgrades Menu and Player Upgrades menu
Wrote Player Upgrades System
18/02/2026
Rewrote weapons to work for enemies
Rewrote enemy AI to attack player
Added enemies spawning with random weapon
Adjusted upgrade strength
19/02/2026
Added a wave system
Added player spin move
Added game over
Added player transformation